Hello and welcome back to the advanced course in our programming in this affair are we going to proceed
with correcting our data set.
And today we're talking about correcting and daughter through factual analysis.
So this is the case where you are able to restore Datto 100 percent certainty and go back to our Excel
document and see where this is going to be the case.
So here in this in these states or in these cases where we're missing the state we can restore to 100
percent certainty because we know the city.
Right so if we know the city then we can restore the state like here San Francisco would be California
.
And then also we can calculate expenses a hundred percent certainty assuming that there's no fraud and
there's no errors because it is revenue minus profit basically revenue minus profit.
And then once we populate two of these calls we can calculate the third one as well.
But we're not going to worry about these for now.
We're going to focus on the state column and we're going to see how we can restore the values in the
state.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So back to our data set.
If I run this line I will get all of the columns that have missing values and bear in mind that we have
already removed to or removed to from the industry.
So we removed two rows from the data set that had an A's in the district column.
And now we're going to focus on the state column.
All right so what are we going to do.
First we're going to single out all the rows in the state column that have a name so we can see that
there's four of them.
Let's see if we can single Those four out.
We're going to use fin and then we're going to use our new type of filter is an ape and we're going
to say in the state.
So we're checking for NA's or missing values in this call and then we're running this whole subset and
then we go we've got our subset of rows with an ace in the state column.
Beautiful.
So what do we do next.
And now we want to obviously correct them we want to fix these if in New York and why and these were
California CA because New York is in New York San Francisco is in California.
Now we could definitely do them one by one.
Right we could do them just based on their ID or road name and bear in mind that the wrong name here
is now different to the idea because we did remove two rows and then we updated the roll names for the
whole door frame.
Now that's one of the ways of doing it the other way of doing it is to do them one by one to actually
add an additional field and say anything that has New York out of this subset.
Then apply the value and we're going to take that approach because in this case we have only four and
we could definitely do that one by one but in a big data set or does it with many more missing values
you might have lots and lots of rows that are each correct and working with them one by one can be too
tedious.
So let's go ahead and see how we can hit them.
Both of these rows in one go this one and this one right here.
All right.
So what we're going to do is we're going to correct this filter a little bit.
We going just say yes we want this subset but then we want to add another condition on say and fin dollar
sign.
City equals to New York.
Right so we're adding an additional condition to that.
So if we run that now we've got all of the ones that have missing values in the state coal and their
city is New York and now it's very simple.
From here we just say we want to address the state column.
So in quotation marks because we're addressing it by name.
So the name of the call here stay and we want to say apply the New York code into that column for on
that.
And now if I look at.
So how do I bring these roles are because if they're on this line they won't come up any more right
so far.
Just run this line.
They won't come up because we don't have any arose because they don't have a name here anymore.
So just to check.
So we'll just say check.
We're going to bring up them by their old names so we're going to say fin.
And here I want to pass on the numbers 11 and 3 7 7 because that's the row names.
And then I want comma nothing meaning or columns has happened but that.
So as you can see the state has indeed been updated to New York.
So that is a success.
Great.
Congratulations on that.
What do we want to do now.
Well now we want to also quickly check this again and see that.
Now we don't have them.
So you can see that this subset is getting smaller and smaller every time we fix up our data set and
now we just need to fix up the San Francisco ones.
So I'm going to let you pause the video now if you want to practice.
Post the video and see if you can update the rows on your own and you need to put in the two letters
see a into these rows into the column state and then just basically perform the same procedures and
then unpause the video and then see how we do it here.
So there we go.
Now I'm going to continue with this.
In the video.
All right.
So now we want to look for fin.
Basically Wolf is in a state we know that there's going to be just two.
So there they are.
Once again we could just do it right away now because are the same series of the same state but just
for completeness sake we're going to copy this line.
We're going to change this to San Francisco.
Run that OK.
That's good.
And actually we're just going to copy this line and we're going to say state of get the quotation marks
and here we're going to say see hey run that and now we're going to check.
So Finn What were the numbers there.
82 and 2 6 5.
OK so let's have a look at that.
Eighty two and two six five common nothing run that they can see that the state is has been updated
to see a.
OK.
And finally let's just look at this again just to make sure that it's getting smaller.
Voila.
So we only have six rows left and we only need to deal with five of them because we agreed that this
one will keep.
So beautiful.
This one is getting smaller and smaller.
This subset is getting smaller as more and that's very exciting.
Slowly preparing our data for analysis.
And that's exactly what we are after in the section.
And I hope you enjoy this tutorial.
I look forward to seeing the next one.
Until then happy coding.